(logo whooshes)
(light music)
(haunting music)
(ravens cawing)
(metal clanging)
(intense music)
(bellows whooshing)
(warriors shouting)
(swords clanging)
(blood squelching)
(intense music continues)
(metal clanging)
(swords clanging)
(warriors grunting)
(warriors shouting)
(swords clanging)
(blood squelches)
(warriors shouting)
(swords clanging)
(blood squelching)
(steam hissing)
(Thorvald growling)
(Thorvald shouting)
(swords clanging)
(suspenseful music)
(warriors shouting)
(Thorvald laughs)
(blood squelching)
(Freyja shouts)
- Freyja!
(Thorvald groaning)
(weapon thuds)
(steam hissing)
(suspenseful music)
(Thorvald grunting)
(Speaking Norse)
- Silence!
Renounce your gods. heathen!
Renounce your gods!
- Saint Michael the Archangel.
defend us in battle.
be our protection against
the wickedness
and snares of the devil.
May God rebuke him.
we humbly pray
and do thou. O Prince
of the heavenly host.
by the power of God.
thrust into hell Satan
and all of the other
evil spirits
that prowl about the world
seeking the ruin of souls.
I curse you.
You will never see
your Valhalla!
- Odin owns you all!
- [Priest] Amen!
(blood squelches)
(sheep bleating)
(birds chirping)
- Oh.
- Wakey-wakey.
We're almost there.
Ah. look how beautiful it is.
Yeah. I can feel it.
We're gonna be happy here.
We both will.
(ominous music)
(child laughing)
(ravens cawing)
(dramatic music)
(light music)
Oh. you can take the
man out of Scotland.
Any requests?
(footsteps padding)
(doorknob rattling)
(Sara sighs)
- Where'd the builders
leave the key?
- Er. the key is in
the flowerpot.
See. you wouldn't get
that in London would you?
We'd be on some Home
Invasion TV.
There we go.
We'll be as snug as
a bug in no time.
Ah. my new edition's arrived.
Looks good. eh? (chuckles)
And you've got a wee
letter from your priest.
Praise be.
So. what do you think?
Sara?
- Oh. sorry.
Um.
It's just a lot
to take in.
- Aye.
Well.
why don't you go and
take a nice bath
and I'll take my new
toy out for a spin?
Eh?
- You're obsessed.
- Yeah. true.
But the new blog's not
going to write itself.
I'll be back in a bit.
(Sara sighs)
(ravenss cawing)
(ominous music)
(toy clatters)
(wind howling)
(metal detector beeping)
(ravens cawing)
(water splashing)
(Sara sighs)
(flashback whooshing)
(suspenseful music)
(siren wailing)
- Luke. do you want
to come inside?
Fergus?
Can you watch Luke for me?
Fergus! Did you hear me?
(car horn honking)
(tyres screeching)
Fergus!
(suspenseful music)
(metal detector beeping)
(metal clanging)
(Fergus sighs)
- For fuck's sake.
- You've done your
research then.
This is Croc a'ghasigichy.
Warrior's Hill.
where a thousand years ago
local clansmen fought
the savages.
Buaidh no Bàs
Victory or death.
Where's my manners?
I'm Elsa. Elsa Campbell.
- Of course.
You. you cared for my father.
- For my sins. aye.
- Hello.
- It's good to see you're
of the same stock. Fergus.
The village doesn't take
too kindly to outsiders.
but we do take care of our own.
Anyway. I shan't keep you.
Could you pass these
to your wife for me?
Poor thing. she must be
beside herself with grief.
In fact. prepare the
purple thistle.
It'll do wonders for her mood.
(Sara breathing heavily)
- Heavenly Father. I thank you.
In the hardest of times
you are here.
(ominous music)
(ravenss cawing)
(metal detector beeping)
When I am alone.
afraid.
sad.
you are here.
(metal detector beeping)
(ominous music)
When I am confused.
ashamed.
or hurt.
You are here.
(Fergus grunting)
(solemn music)
You are with me.
You are here.
Amen.
(dramatic music)
(suspenseful music)
(Fergus laughs)
(solemn music)
- What a way to go. eh?
Poor sod.
- Is it real?
- It could be a prank I suppose.
but I mean. it looks real.
It's quite the find if it is.
- You should never
have dug him up.
- Why?
Because we're not grave
robbers. Fergus.
And...
I mean. what if that
was Luke's grave?
Eh? What then?
- Come on.
- Why?
Because the dead don't
deserve the same courtesy?
Or is your blog more
important than that?
- No. of course not.
- Good.
That's settled then.
I'll call Father Stewart
in the morning.
- What. as an expert of
ancient artefacts?
- No. As an expert
in burying people.
Not digging them up.
I'm going to bed.
(footsteps thudding)
(door thuds)
- Goodnight.
(door creaks)
(door thuds)
(solemn piano music)
(mysterious music)
(child laughing)
(mysterious music continues)
(Luke laughing)
(footsteps thudding)
(door clicks)
(ominous music)
(voices whispering)
Hello?
I can hear you!
(ominous music)
(voices whispering)
(metal clanging)
(suspenseful music)
(voices screaming)
(metal clanging)
Hello?
(dramatic music)
- Who are you talking to?
- Did you not hear that?
Did you hear that?
There was a...
- [Sara] What?
- There was a.
there's a banging coming from.
from in here.
There was. did you not hear it?
(door thuds)
- It's locked.
- I swear. there was a
banging coming from in here.
I'm not going crazy.
- It's been a long
day. let's just...
Just c'mon.
- Right then.
(dramatic music)
(voices whispering)
(solemn piano music)
(bed creaking)
(toilet flushing)
(door creaks)
Goodnight. love.
(ominous music)
- Night.
(oil sizzling)
- [Fergus] Ah. that smells good.
- Smoked and poached
just like you like it.
I made you some coffee too.
- Wow. you really are
spoiling the nutter.
- No.
It's just a strange night.
- Hmm.
Strangest.
- Besides. you know
what they say?
- Hmm?
- Things that go bump in
the night generally don't.
Anyway. tuck in.
I've got a skull to go clean.
(door thuds)
(keyboard clacking)
(door creaks)
(mysterious music)
- Yecch!
(maggots squelching)
Rough night. huh?
Yeah.
(mysterious music)
Okay.
Let's just get you cleaned up.
(mysterious music)
(maggots squelching)
Where are you coming from?
(suspenseful music)
(maggots squelching)
(skull cracking)
(Sara grunting)
Come on.
Come...
(dramatic music)
(door slams shut)
(mysterious music)
(Sara breathing heavily)
(haunting music)
(maggots squelching)
(Sara breathing heavily)
(suspenseful music)
(ominous music)
(maggots squelching)
(Sara breathing heavily)
(blood squelching)
(ominous music)
(Sara breathing heavily)
(blood squelching)
(Speaking Norse)
(Sara screams)
(Sara sighs)
(birds chirping)
(suspenseful music)
- Friends. today I want
to talk about forgiveness.
The cornerstone of our faith
and a virtue that
remains essential
to the well-being of our souls.
Friends. as a teenager.
I was bullied.
Okay. I was different.
I wanted to be a priest
when everyone around me
wanted to be anything but.
I was a decent child
just cast aside.
My life would never
truly be my own.
My friends would never
really be my friends.
And you know what?
I hated them for that.
And I dragged that hate
and bitterness
around with me for years.
Everywhere I went.
it came with me.
dominating me. never
allowing me to move on.
Until one day I met
Father Joseph.
a decent man. a kind man.
and the man that would
save my life.
change my life and allow
me to live as a priest.
And that day. as I do now.
I recounted the story
of my unhappy childhood.
and Father Joseph listened
and he listened with poise
and compassion.
And when I finished my story.
he looked at me and he said.
"Father Stewart.
"you have every right
to feel angry.
"What happened to you was
awful. but now it is time.
"You must totally forgive them.
"Forgive them. release them.
and you will be set free."
And I said. "But Father.
"you don't know what
they did to me.
"they beat me and they beat me.
"they lied about me
again and again.
"They made my life hell."
And Father Joseph looked
at me and he said.
"Father Stewart. you have
every right to feel angry.
"What happened to you was awful.
"But now it this time.
you must forgive them.
"Forgive them. release them.
and you will be set free.
"No matter what."
You see. my friends.
forgiveness is a balm
for our wounded souls
and a pathway to healing
the scars inflicted.
It liberates us of the
burden of carrying grudges
and nurtures the fertility
of hope within our hearts.
And my friends. if we
are to follow God.
then we must forgive.
And we must forgive.
as God has forgiven us
freely. completely. graciously.
unconditionally.
As Father Joseph
so rightly said.
"Forgive them. release them.
"and you will be set free."
You will be set free.
(Sara exhales)
(keyboard clacking)
Sara. so wonderful to see you
and welcome to welcome
to Saint Mike's.
- Thank you. Father.
It's beautiful here.
it really is.
- Hmm. isn't it. just?
I only wish more of the
locals would appreciate it.
Now you must tell me more
about this ancient skull.
Sounds wonderful. Sara.
Wonderful.
(mysterious music)
(mysterious music continues)
- Hey.
Kinda disappointed you
didn't join me.
(Fergus chuckles)
- Oh. I've got two
left feet. Elsa.
and my two left feet
have got me.
- Excuses. excuses.
You've got something on
your mind as well.
I can feel it.
I can hear your brain
tick. tick. ticking away.
(Fergus chuckles)
- I. um...
Aye. I did want to
ask you something.
- Shoot.
We'll walk as we talk.
- Yesterday you said that
I'd done my research.
my research which.
which kind of implies
that you'd done your
research into my research
to know that I've done
my research. you know?
- [Elsa] Wow!
(Fergus laughs)
- Look. okay. I'm.
I'm talking in riddles. but I-
- You just want to know
what I know. right?
- Right.
- And why didn't you say so?
Family history has always
fascinated me.
it always has. and probably
always will.
And now. I think I'm just
a little bit fascinated
about your history too.
C'mon. I'll make you some tea.
(tea splashing)
McKittrick.
(Fergus speaking faintly)
Here we go. A mugwort special.
It was your father's fave.
Now. let's dig into the ghosts
of the McKittricks'
past. shall we?
First up. Exhibit A.
- No. you're kidding me?
- No. it's all true.
- I'm a Viking?
- By bloodline you are yes.
You see. the roots
of the McKittricks
go back to Scandinavian Scotland
and evolved through the
ages from there.
From the Sigtryggr.
right through to...
- Mac Shit Rig?
- Until Mac Shitrig
became McKittrick
and your family settled here.
- Ah.
- As Christians. Fergus.
And that's not all.
Take a look at this and
tell me who you see.
Look. even those cheekbones
are Fergusy.
(both laughing)
- Now I know you are
having me on.
I mean. have you ever seen
anything like this before?
- Not personally. but
let me give Mungo a call.
- Mungo?
- Aye. he's got the sight
as we say in Scotland.
he can see into our
world and his.
- Oh. this is.
this is crazy.
1850?
(Fergus laughs)
What?
It's my dad.
(Fergus laughing)
What?
(door thuds)
C'mon. c'mon. c'mon.
(camera shutter clicks)
(footsteps thudding)
- Okay. he's in.
We'll see tomorrow.
- Okay great.
Do you think he knows something?
- Oh aye. he always
knows something.
He's gifted after all.
Let me see you out.
- [Mungo] New blood. eh. Father?
- Yes. no doubt the bishop
would call it a recruitment
spike. Mungo.
"Numbers. Father Stewart.
numbers."
Or as I call it. a tragedy.
And then her husband
in all his wisdom
goes and digs up the dead.
- Aye.
But you can't give him a
Christian burial though. Father.
- And why's that?
- Well. because he's not
Christian. is he?
Acta deos numquam
mortalia fallunt. Father.
Mortal actions will
never deceive your God.
- Even if that mortal
is a man of the cloth?
- Especially if that mortal
is a man of the cloth.
Look. you're new. Father.
I get you're in a hurry
to impress the Bishop.
But don't be in too
much of a rush. eh?
Always seek an audience.
seek guidance.
But remember. never.
never let the living
dismiss the dead.
Good day to you.
(cellphone buzzing)
(door creaks)
(footsteps thudding)
(wind howling)
- Mungo. is that you?
(suspenseful piano music)
(footsteps pattering)
Anybody there?
(person sobbing)
(door slams shut)
(Father Stewart gasps)
(voice whispering)
(suspenseful music)
(wind howling)
- For the last time. Fergus.
the skull needs to rest
in peace not be a post
on your bloody blog!
- No. look Sara.
I told you it's more
than just a skull!
- Oh. fuck off!
- No!
- You back off!
- No. Listen to me. okay?
- Back off!
- Look. just give me-
- No. just stop!
- Give me the skull.
- Give it back.
- No.
- Give it back now!
- No!
- Give it back!
- Give it!
- No!
- Give it back!
- Listen. no.
- Give it!
- No!
- Give it back!
- No! Never!
(punch thuds)
- You just don't understand.
You just don't understand me.
Cunt!
(wind howling)
(door clicks shut)
(solemn piano music)
(warriors shouting)
(weapon clangs)
(dramatic music)
(solemn piano music)
(light zapping)
(child laughing)
Luke?
(suspenseful music)
(child laughing)
(stairs creaking)
Luke?
(suspenseful music)
Luke. is that you?
(floor creaking)
(child laughing)
(toy clatters)
(dramatic music)
(Sara screaming)
Fergus!
(Sara gasping)
- Sara?
Sara. what happened?
What happened?
- Luke.
- What happened?
- I saw him! I saw him!
- You saw who?
Who?
- Luke! I saw him!
- No. Sara.
(Sara sobbing)
It's okay.
It's okay. c'mon.
Up you come. Okay. c'mon. c'mon.
Come with me. come with me.
No. no. no. no. no. no. Sara.
Sara. no. no. no. no.
No. no. no. no. no.
(ominous music)
(wind howling)
(Sara singing in foreign
language)
- And she's never studied
languages?
Or lived overseas?
- No. She's never shown
an interest. no.
(Sara singing in foreign
language)
- Sara. I'm Dr. Byrne.
Okay if I take your temperature?
Don't worry. I won't bite.
- Oh. but I might. Doctor.
And I know how bored
you are with your wife.
- I beg your pardon?
- It's not much fun
when they just lie back
thinking of Scotland is it?
Even less fun when they don't.
Frigid fucking bitch!
- Sarah!
- What?
He hates me. you know?
He'd never tell me.
but he blames me for
Luke's death.
As I blame him.
- Okay. let's just give
this a try. shall we?
That's it.
As happy as can be.
She definitely has a fever.
Is she on any medication at all?
- I can speak for
myself. you know?
- Then are you taking
any medication. Sara?
- Hmm.
Let me think.
I know.
Why don't you go fuck yourself?
(Sara spits)
Go on. fuck off!
- Sara. that's enough.
- It's fine. it's fine.
No need to fuss.
(solemn piano music)
There's no harm done is there?
I. um.
I may need some help though.
- No. no!
- It's just to help
you sleep. Sara.
- No. I don't want to sleep!
Fergus. I don't want to sleep!
- It's okay! It's
okay. I'm sorry.
- No. I don't want to sleep.
Stop!
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
(Sara gasping)
I'm sorry.
(Fergus breathing heavily)
(solemn piano music)
What's the matter
with her. Doctor?
- My gut feeling?
She's delirious.
The onset can be rapid
and there's every chance
that she could see or hear
things that aren't there.
- And the language stuff?
Where does that come in?
- Well. that's the unknown.
- Great.
- Look. she's heavily
sedated and she's resting.
- Hmm.
- So let's give her
24 hours. shall we?
And if she's still no better.
well. I'll fast track
an MRI and bring her in.
But she needs to rest
now. Fergus. okay?
You both do.
- Hmm.
(wind howling)
(Thorvald breathing)
(Sara breathing heavily)
(solemn piano music)
(weapons clanging)
(warriors shouting)
Sara!
(pen scratching)
(Sara breathing heavily)
(warriors shouting)
(solemn music continues)
What?
(ominous music)
(ominous music continues)
Sara! Sara!
Sara!
Sara. c'mon. c'mon. c'mon.
Are you okay? Are you okay?
Come here. come on.
It's okay. It's okay.
Okay?
(suspenseful music)
(cellphone ringing)
(water splashing)
(dishes rattling)
(cellphone ringing)
- Whoa. calm down. Fergus.
What?
She did what?
Okay. I'll come over.
Fergus. I said I'll come over.
(cellphone beeps)
Blessed be. McKittrick.
Blessed be.
- You know. I would
have been lost in there
if it wasn't for you. Elsa.
God. I was so scared.
I've lost Luke. but if
I lost her as well...
- She's stronger than you think.
- Aye. you're right.
- I am always right.
Next up. thyme.
It's a great healer after all.
- And that's the peony tea?
- Aye. that helps ward
off evil spirits.
- [Sara] Fergus!
- And hopefully delirium too.
(solemn music)
Feeling better?
- I think so.
Can you hear him?
- Hear who?
- There's someone...
There's someone speaking to me.
There's someone in my head.
- Is he talking to you now?
What's he saying?
- He wants the priest.
- He what?
- He wants the fucking priest!
(door slams shut)
(voices whispering)
(suspenseful music)
(door thuds)
(ominous music)
(flesh cutting)
- Hello?
(suspenseful music)
Show yourself!
(furniture clatters)
I've got a knife!
(flames crackling)
(suspenseful music)
(warriors shouting distantly)
- Ah!
(Fergus screams)
(Fergus gasping)
(pages crumpling)
- Sara?
Sara?
(dramatic music)
Jesus Christ!
(Sara growling)
Sara please stop this!
- I'll try the doctor again.
(Sara speaking in
foreign language)
(cellphone ringing)
- Get me the priest!
Get me the fucking priest!
(Father Stewart gasping)
(footsteps padding)
(waves splashing)
- Blessed be. Doctor.
Rest in peace.
(wind howling)
(suspenseful music)
(footsteps padding)
(ominous music)
(Father Stewart knocks on door)
- Do you believe in
ghosts. Father?
- I believe ghosts are
lost spirits. Fergus. Yes.
They scare us because
they're scared themselves.
Why do you ask?
- And what if they're
evil spirits?
- Well. they'll fight for
survival like anything else.
But they'll want to survive
in the light. Fergus.
not be forced back
into the dark.
Where are you leading
me here exactly?
- I want Sara to have
an exorcism.
- You what?
- She's hearing things.
seeing things.
doing things that are not of
this world. they're of his.
- And you know how many hoops
we'd have to jump through
to get that approved?
- [Fergus] Yes. I have
done my research.
- Well. then.
- Which is why you're
going to do it yourself.
- Oh come on. Fergus.
I'm not qualified.
Besides. I'd be struck off.
- [Fergus] But you know
the scriptures-
- Yes. but I'm not trained
in the rite.
And I'm not putting Sara's
life at risk.
Not a chance.
- Fine! Well. in that
case. this goes!
- No. Fergus.
- Yes. Father!
I shouldn't have dug it
up in the first place!
- Fergus. stop!
- Guys!
She's starting to wake.
- [Father Stewart] Fergus.
- What is it with the
the skull. Father?
- Nothing.
The living should just never
dismiss the dead that's all.
- No.
Not when you've seen
the spirits too. eh?
I see you. Father.
Your fear shines bright.
(door creaks)
(footsteps thudding)
(door clicks shut)
- Sara. it's Father Stewart.
I've come to see you.
Fergus is really worried
about you.
We both are.
And we'd like to get you
some help if you'd let us.
- Thank you. Father.
I feel a lot stronger
with you here.
- Then I will stay as
long as you want.
- [Sara] May I ask
you a question?
- Of course you can.
- Why were you bullied?
What was the real reason?
- Like I said Sara. I
was different then.
Well. I wanted to love who
I wanted to love and...
Look. I'd like to
pray now. Sara.
Would you like to pray with me?
- Hmm. you know. Father.
No.
I don't think I would.
- That's okay.
- Instead...
I think I'd like
to slit your fucking throat
and watch your blood drip-
- No. Sara no! Sara no!
- What? Husband. do I blaspheme?
Have I laid myself bare
at the gates of Hell?
- [Father Stewart] My
God. you are a demon.
- And would you fear
me if I was?
- Never.
I am God's servant.
I only fear God himself.
(Sara clapping)
- Such faith. Father.
Such blind faith.
- Sneer all you want. demon.
but Sara will not be bullied.
God will not be bullied.
We shall prevail.
- I have conquered
cruel. inhospitable lands
and you expect me.
me. to be defeated
by this?
Never!
My God will condemn you
as your God has condemned me!
And my death will be avenged!
(Sara growling)
(blood squelching)
- No. Sara no!
No. no!
Quick! Help me!
- Hold her down!
- Stop it!
- Please!
- Grab her arm!
Hold her down!
(Sara growling)
Will you help us now?
- As God is my witness!
Now hold her down. Fergus!
Hold her down!
(Sara growling)
(water splashing)
(Fergus sobbing quietly)
(toy rattling)
(Fergus continues sobbing)
(Sara growling)
(Sara laughs)
- What a great night
for an exorcism. Father.
- In the name of the Father.
the Son. and the Holy Spirit.
(Sara growling)
Let's begin.
In the name of the Father. the
Son and of the Holy Spirit.
- Bastard!
You're a bastard. Father!
- Our Father. who art in
Heaven. hallowed be thy name.
Thy kingdom come.
thy will be done
on earth as it is in Heaven.
- You who will dine
at a table of whores!
- Give us this day
our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses
as we forgive those
who trespass against us
(Sara hissing)
and lead us not into temptation.
but deliver us from evil!
(Sara growling)
Saint Michael the Archangel.
defend us in battle!
- No!
- Be our protection
against the wickedness-
- No. no. no. no. no!
- And snares of the devil!
(Sara hissing)
- I curse you!
(warrior growls)
(weapon clangs)
- Have we not suffered enough?
- [Father Stewart] Fergus.
the holy water.
- I said. have we not
suffered enough?
- Fergus. now!
- Yuck.
- It's not working!
It's not working. Father!
- Save me. oh God.
hear my prayer.
Give ear to the words
of my mouth.
For evil hath risen
up against us
and fierce men seek our lives.
- You're a fraud. Father.
- Let the evil recoil
upon my foes-
- [Sara] Why did you run
to the highlands. Father?
- In your faithfulness
destroy them.
I will praise your name.
Lord. for its goodness.
- An ambitious priest
in a place like this?
- Because from all distress
you have rescued me.
- You're a sinner. Aren't
you. Father?
- Glory be to the Father.
- Aren't you?
- Preserve thy servant who
places her faith in thee-
- [Sara] You preach
the beauty of creation.
- And in the face of the enemy.
- And yet
let the enemy have
no power over her!
- And the son of be powerless
- you commit
- to harm her evermore.
- sins of the flesh!
- Fergus. the holy water!
- It doesn't work!
It doesn't work!
- Get up. man!
- No!
(Sara laughing)
- Lord. heed my prayer and
let my cry be heard by you.
C'mon. man!
Lord. heed my prayer and
let my cry be heard by you.
Fergus. get up!
Come on. Fergus!
- What?
- [Father Stewart] I need you!
- I. I can't!
- Lord. heed my prayer and
let my cry be heard by you!
Lord. heed my prayer and
(dramatic music)
Fergus. get up!
Lord. heed my prayer and
let my cry be heard by you!
It's working. Join me!
Lord. heed my prayer and
let my cry be heard by you!
- [Both] Lord. heed my prayer
and let my cry be heard by you!
Lord. heed my prayer and
let my cry be heard by you!
- I cast you out unclean spirit
along with every satanic
power of the enemy.
every spectre of Hell!
In the name of our Lord
Jesus Christ. I cast you out!
Be gone. demon. and stay far
away from this creature of God!
For it is he who commands you.
He who flung you headlong
from the heights of Heaven
into the depths of Hell.
It is he who commands you.
He who once stilled the wind
and the sea and the storm.
Therefore tremble
in fear. Satan.
you enemy of the faith.
you foe of the human race.
you begetter of death.
you robber of life.
you corrupter of justice.
you root of all evil.
you author of pain and sorrow!
I cast you out!
Begone!
(Sara growling)
I cast you out!
I cast you out
in the name of the Father
and of the Son
and of the Holy Spirit!
I cast you out!
I cast you out. demon!
(Sara retches)
(Sara breathing heavily)
(Father Stewart gasping)
(maggots squelching)
- Is it over. Father?
Will it ever be over?
- I don't know.
But what we just saw. Fergus.
what we witnessed. that gives
me hope that he's listening.
that he's answering our prayers.
- I wish I had your faith.
- You still have belief.
- I don't know what
to believe anymore.
- Well then. why don't
you take a break
and I'll go and check
how she is?
(door creaks)
What the?
- Fuck!
Father!
What? The cat got your tongue?
(voices whispering)
It's an Old Norse rune.
a symbol used to inspire
great warriors in their life
and help them find the
light in their death.
I need to find the
light. Father.
I need to find it now!
- Yes. and you need to
tell him to stop. Sara.
Look at you.
Tell him to stop.
- Silence. fool!
- [Father Stewart]
Think about Luke.
You've lost him once. don't
you dare lose him again.
- I said silence!
- Don't you dare lose
him again. Sara.
- That is enough!
You don't get to say his name.
You hear me?
You know nothing. Father.
Nothing.
When he was hit by the car.
was he scared?
You don't know.
When he was hit. was he in pain?
When he was hit. was he.
was he screaming. "Mommy?"
"Mommy. Mommy. Mommy. Mommy?"
You don't know.
You don't know. You don't know.
And he won't fucking tell me!
(suspenseful music)
And yet
you still think I'm merciful?
- God has forgiven
you Sara. yes.
This wasn't your fault.
- Eh. but she sinned. Father.
She killed her son!
And now she's going
to kill you too.
- No. please. I beg of you.
Lord. deliver his soul
from Purgatory.
Deliver his soul. Lord.
Lord. deliver his soul
from Purgatory.
- It's too late. priest!
To the land of death and Odin!
Amen!
(warrior shouts)
(weapon clangs)
(blood squelches)
(body thuds)
No. no. no. no! (sobbing)
(Mungo knocks on door)
- Fergus McKittrick?
- Yes?
- I'm Mungo McKittrick.
(wind howling)
(footsteps thudding)
Right. I expect you've
had quite a night. right?
So. have you phoned
anyone since the attack?
- What's that got
to do with you?
- Everything. Fergus.
You're hiding a murdered priest
with half his skull missing.
And the more you stop
me doing my job.
the longer it's going
to take me to fix it.
So why don't you listen up
and let me ask that
question again.
Have you phoned anyone
since the attack?
- No.
- Good.
Text?
- No.
- [Mungo] Right.
Give me your phone.
- Oh. come on.
- Just give me your
fucking phone!
There's no debate.
Right.
Where is she. upstairs?
- Yes.
- Right.
Well. let's go upstairs then.
(door creaks)
(footsteps thudding)
- [Elsa] Merry meet Sire.
- Blessed be young McKittrick.
How is she?
- She's really weak. sire.
so we need to move fast.
- Right.
Then let's move fast.
I need you to fetch
me some items.
Some books. clothing.
- Of course. sire.
- Fucking McKittrick.
He's not a demon. you know?
- I'm sorry?
- The exorcism didn't work
because he's not a demon. is he?
He's a Viking.
and you're a fucking
McKittrick too.
- Campbell was my mother's
maiden name. Fergus.
I'll be as quick as I can.
- No. no. no. no.
What the fuck is going on?
For Sara's sake. tell
me what you've done!
- Fergus! You need to relax!
- Relax?
How can I relax?
- Look. you're right.
He's not a demon. No.
His name is Thorvald Ironside.
He's one of the most feared
and infamous Norse chieftains
of all time.
And he needs our help.
They both do.
(Sara breathing raggedly)
You see. maybe if you
were a religious man
it would make more sense.
You see. your father
hated Christians.
He hated the hypocrisy
of it all.
I mean. think about it.
They preach one solution
and yet remain fiercely
divided amongst themselves.
You've got the Catholics. the
Protestants. the Methodists.
Don't get me started on
the bloody door knockers.
"All blind Mungo. all blind."
(Mungo chuckles)
You see a religious man
needs a religion.
somewhere to hang his
spiritual hat.
and whereas some
people find God.
well. your father found
Thorvald Ironside.
Quite literally.
the great warrior.
who would become his
lifelong obsession.
Thorvald Ironside.
the great warrior.
who would become his dying wish.
- You planned this all
along. didn't you?
- Me?
No. of course not.
Your father did.
And when he died.
well. I reburied the skull.
(solemn piano music)
(ravens cawing)
(mysterious music)
- Yeah. of course you did.
- Well. you see.
you always did your
research. Fergus.
You always do.
Your devil is in the
detail. after all.
- Fucking McKittrick.
- He is cleansed by the moon.
He found them.
The devil's mission.
(pages ruffling)
(footsteps thudding)
- Sire. she's not responding!
We need to do this now!
- You bastard.
We've already lost our son.
If I lose Sara...
(book thumps)
(howling wind)
(dramatic music)
- Hail to the Day.
Hail to the Night.
Hail the Aesir that
shines so bright.
Hail the mighty Odin.
and hail the Earth that
sacrifices all.
and hail to you. our
blessed dead.
who must stand tall.
The mead. Fergus.
(suspenseful music)
- It's okay.
I love you.
- I call upon the mighty Odin.
all father of the gods to
grant me the wisdom and courage
and allow his ravens to
carry my words back to him.
- [Both] Hail Odin.
Lord of Asgard.
warrior and wanderer.
valiant and wise.
You to whom all the gods
of Asgard look.
Sky Father on the eight-legged
steed.
You who traded an eye for wisdom
and ruled a turbulent realm.
give us the wisdom to accept
the twists and turns of fate.
Protect us. All Father. from
what harm may come to us.
Lead us through the wilderness
and bring us safely
to the great hall.
Hail Odin! And bring us
safely to that great hall.
(Sara breathing heavily)
(suspenseful music)
(flames crackling)
- Oh. Odin.
all father. Lord of Valhalla.
wielder of the Gungnir.
we stand before you in
reverence and supplication.
On this day. we beseech thee
on behalf of the great
warrior Thorvald
who has languished in
purgatory for a millennium.
With the ancient runes
as witness.
we implore you to unfetter
his spirit
from the bonds of anguish
and suffering.
Let him ascend. O Lord.
to the eternal embrace
of Valhalla.
where the meads flow abundantly
and the battles never cease.
And as we invoke your
name in solemn prayer.
grant him passage. O Lord.
so that he may stand among
his kinsmen once more.
- [Both] Hail Odin.
beacon of hope.
hear our entreaty and let this
warrior's spirit soar free.
(dramatic music)
Hail Odin. and let this
warrior's spirit soar free.
(flames crackling)
(footsteps rustling)
(Thorvald breathing heavily)
- McKittrick!
(suspenseful music)
(door creaking)
(door slams shut)
(suspenseful music)
You have journeyed far.
but I have waited far longer.
(footsteps thudding)
(knuckles crack)
So tell me.
what do you know of Lord Odin?
What do you know of our gods?
- Your gods?
I'm not here for your
gods. Viking!
I'm here to save my wife!
- Huh.
So you are ready McKittrick?
You are ready to fight!
May the Gods protect us both!
(Thorvald shouting)
(weapons clanging)
(both shouting)
(Fergus groaning)
(Thorvald laughs)
(weapon whooshing)
You are blessed I see.
Maybe not blessed enough.
Do you want your wife to die?
(both shouting)
(weapons clanging)
I said. do you want
your wife to die?
- No.
No. it is you that shall die!
It is you that shall be
sleeping with the gods!
(weapons clanging)
(both shouting)
(Fergus groaning)
(blood squelches)
(Thorvald groaning)
(solemn music)
- Finish me as you will.
- Hail Odin.
Hail you. sire.
Warrior you have always been.
and a warrior you
will always be.
(solemn music)
(blood squelches)
(Thorvald groaning)
- Odin owns us all!
(Sara breathing heavily)
(solemn piano music)
(bell ringing)
- [Mungo] Blessed be. Sara.
- Blessed be. sire.
- So. Fergus. is he ready
for his big day?
- Aye.
I think he's found his purpose.
We both have.
(dramatic music)
(solemn piano music)
(flames crackling)
(dramatic orchestral music)
(haunting music)
(ravens cawing)
(intense mysterious music)
(intense music continues)